feat(genapi): add tutorial librechat (#4616)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/deploy-librechat-with-generative-apis/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Deploy LibreChat with Scaleway Generative APIs as a ChatGPT alternative
  description: Step-by-step guide to deploy LibreChat with Scaleway Generative APIs locally.
content:
  h1: Deploy LibreChat with Scaleway Generative APIs as a ChatGPT alternative
  paragraph: Step-by-step guide to deploy LibreChat with Scaleway Generative APIs locally.
tags: docker ai generative apis
categories:
  - generative-apis
dates:
  validation: 2025-03-13
  posted: 2025-03-13
---

LibreChat is a free, open-source AI chat platform that unifies interactions with various AI models through a single, customizable interface. It supports multiple AI providers, including Scaleway's Generative APIs, allowing users to switch seamlessly between different models.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) installed on your local machine

> - Generated a Scaleway [API secret key]/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Generated a Scaleway [API secret key](/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/)
```

1. Clone the LibreChat repository from GitHub:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat.git
    ```

2. Copy the `.env.example` file into a file called `.env`:
    ```
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

3. Add a `docker-compose.override.yml` file at the root of the project:
    ```
    touch docker-compose.override.yml
    ```

4. Open the `docker-compose.override.yml` file in a text editor and add the following content. Then save the file and exit the editor:
    ```yaml
    services:
      api:
        volumes:
        - type: bind
          source: ./librechat.yaml
          target: /app/librechat.yaml
    ```

5. Add a `librechat.yaml` file at the root of the project:
    ```
    touch librechat.yaml
    ```

> 6. Open the `librechat.yaml` file in a text editor and copy the following configuration into it. Then save and exit the editor:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Open the `librechat.yaml` file in a text editor and copy the configuration below into it. Then save and exit the editor.
```

    ```yaml
    version: 1.2.1
    cache: true
    # Definition of a custom endpoint for Scaleway
    endpoints:
      custom:
        - name: 'Scaleway'
          apiKey: '<YOUR_SCW_SECRET_API_KEY>'
          baseURL: "https://api.scaleway.ai/v1"
          models:
            default:
              - "llama-3.3-70b-instruct"
            fetch: true
          titleConvo: true
          titleModel: 'Llama-3.3-70b-instruct'
          modelDisplayLabel: 'Scaleway'
    ```
    <Message type="important">

>       Do not forget to replace `<YOUR_SCW_SECRET_API_KEY>` with your personal secret API key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Make sure that you replace `<YOUR_SCW_SECRET_API_KEY>` with your own secret API key.
```
